---
title:  Sphagnum lescurii reanalysis notes
date:  2019-01-03
layout: post
categories:
  - sphagnum diploid subsecunda
---
# Problem

We have microsat Structure evidence for a Northern S. lescurii group in Newfoundland, separate from samples in Nova Scotia and south. We need to look at Isolation By Distance (IBD) in the full dataset and within the groups. Also we need to verify that this is really a N-S split like the other diploid Subsecundas and not a case of a European+NA taxon and a NA taxon that just look similar.

Sphagnum auriculatum (aka Sphagnum denticulatum) in Europe used to be conspecific with S. lescurii, so we should check that the neither cluster of S. lescurii group with with European auriculatum samples. We have Mariana Ricca's European microsat data [from this paper][1], which included NFLD lescurii and European auriculatum, but not any lescurii from the southern cluster.  We need to pull those European auriculatum samples into this analysis.

# Data

  * Mariana's auriculatum data is on Dropbox at Shaw Lab/ArchivedSandy_July2010/DVD2-4/DVD4_Sphag_Msat_Misc/NFLD&Norway/NOR_NFLD_masats_Master_w_coll#s.xls
  * The North American lescurii microsat data, Matt Johnson's Genalex and Structure analysis results, and georeferencing info from Blanka Aguero are at Shaw Lab/Aaron/Subsecunda_geography_diploids/diploid_lescurii/

# Analysis

  * Structure with just Northern and Southern lescurii--Already done by Matt Johnson. No need to rerun.
  * Structure with European, Northern, and Southern lescurii--Just checking to be sure the Northern and Southern lescurii clusters are closer to each other than either is to European used-to-be-lescurii species.
    - Combined the North American lescurii microsat data (NoClonesByState) with 28 Norwegian auriculatum samples from Mariana's data (there were 38 but I dropped one with mostly missing data and 9 with duplicated multilocus genotypes).
    - Ran Structure on Duke Computing Cluster
      - 165 samples, 12 diploid loci
      - K1 through K10 with 10 reps each
      - 50000 burnin and 5 million cycles
  * Isolation by distance--For all NA lescurii and separately for Northern and Southern clusters.
    - 137 samples after removing duplicate multilocus genotypes (same dataset Matt used for Structure analysis).
    - Fixed a couple samples with bad georeference data (flipped the sign of the longitude because they were appearing in Kyrgystan).
    - Mapped samples [in Google Maps][2] and verified the mapped locations fit the state and site number info.

[1]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2008.06.009
[2]: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1KjTkgh2dbGLXXI-XOBRJZEHmTlsTekdj&usp=sharing
