---
title:  S. carolinianum reanalysis notes
date:  2018-12-12
layout: post
categories:
  - sphagnum
---

Microsat data:
  * 12 loci (1, 9, 10, 12, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 26, 28)
  * 6 "populations" assigned by state (New Jersey, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Mississippi)
  * 61 samples but only 37 unique genotypes (clones). They only kept one individual of each clone so the final dataset has 37 individuals. The multiple samples in a set of clones were always from the same site (_i.e._, no genotype was found at multiple sites--there are no "widespread genotypes").

Previous analyses:
* PCA (MS+FL group separately from the rest on first coordinate axis)
* Structure (K=2, MS + FL in one group, everything else in another. Almost no admixture except ~5% and ~1% in two NC genotypes)
* Genalex
  - Fis for all pops together is negative for all but one locus... suggests higher than expected heterozygosity.  Wait. What does that even mean in a diploid gametophyte? These aren't two segregating alleles in a sporophyte. These are essentially two different loci (one originating in one parental species and the other originating in the other parental species... we just can't tell which is which now. There is no "expected" heterozygosity.

# Differences between Mariana's Structure runs and my rerun:
  * I included the 90% probability intervals for the cluster assignments in the output.
  * I moved the K-values, input filename, and output filename from the mainparams files to the command line so I can have just one maiparams file rather than one for each K.
  * I removed the "UPDATEFREQ 1" line from the mainparams file--that parameter was set to 1000 in the extraparams file too and I think it was overriding the mainparams file anyway.
  * The existing batch script was written for SGE rather than SLURM, so I made a SLURM file based on one of mine on the UofU cluster.
  * I double-checked Mariana's existing parameters against the structure documentation and they are all either recommended defaults or make sense for this analysis.
  * They used v2.3.2.1 (Oct 2009) and I used 2.3.4 (Jul 2012)
