---
title: Targeted locus methylation reading notes
date: 2014-11-24T14:48:43+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta methylation
---
Problem: We have intergenic spacer regions between the GSTs. We have a set of primers spaced throughout the region (designed from the Turkey reference genome) that have been used to amplify and sequence overlapping sections of the intergenic spacers. We want more depth of coverage and are considering using high-throughput sequencing to get it, and I want to find a way to get methylation patterns for the intergenic spacers at the same time.

  * <span style="line-height: 13px;">At first glance, it seems simple... use bisulfite treatment on part of the library to identify the methylated CpGs. But this is not simple:</span>
      * If we bisulfite treat the genomic DNA before amplification our primers may not match if they are designed to anneal to sequence containing CpGs that are unmethylated. Most of the primer sequences contain CGs or GCs.
      * If we amplify first and then bisulfite treat the amplified DNA we will not capture the original methylation pattern because the amplified fragments will not have been methylated.
  * In <a href="http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0101683">doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0101683</a>, they do something similar by shearing the entire genome through sonication (trying to get ~700bp fragments), applying one adapter to both ends of each fragment (this adapter is methylated so it won't get changed in downstream processes), bisulfite sequencing all the fragments, and then PCR amplifying with a second adapter that anneals adjacent to their target sequence. This amplifies all the fragments that contain their target sequence. They end up with fragments up to 700bp long with a one adapter at one end and the other at the other end. The adapters contain ION Torrent sequencing sites so they can then sequence normally. It only works because their second adapter anneals to sequence that does not contain any CpGs. We could do something similar to this if we can design enough new primers that don't contain CpGs.
  * The introduction to <a href="http://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gks829">doi:10.1093/nar/gks829</a> contains references to several different bisulfite high-throughput sequencing methods.
  * It may be possible to add DNA methyltransferase to a PCR reaction to transfer the methylation patterns to the amplified strands <a href="http://core-genomics.blogspot.com/2014/03/5mc-pcr-preserving-methylation-status.html" target="_blank">as described in this unpublished report</a>, but it looks like it may not work consistently and if the methyltransferase is allowed to react too long it may produce de novo methylation sites that would then be amplified further - so not always methylating the methylated sites and sometimes methylating unmethylated sites... not good. Also methyltransferase is not heat stable so it would need to be manually added after each PCR cycle, increasing chances of inconsistency.
  * Bisulfite Patch PCR <a href="http://doi.org/10.1101/gr.101212.109">doi:10.1101/gr.101212.109</a> works by cutting the genome with a restriction enzyme that is found near the target sequences, using a locus-specific 'patch' to help anneal an adapter with a universal priming site (that can't contain C), bisulfite treating, and then amplifying using an adapter that has a sample-specific barcode and the complement of the priming site. This could work if there are enough of a particular cutsite spread throughout the interGSTs.
  * This study <a href="http://doi.org/10.1262/jrd.2012-144">doi:10.1262/jrd.2012-144</a> was done here in ADVS @ USU using a straightforward process of bisulfite treatment, amplification using primers without CpG (no C's in the forward primer and no G's in the reverse primer? huh?) and then random shearing into 100bp fragments and Illumina sequencing with the standard library prep.
