---
title: Tuesday
date: 2014-11-25T14:13:28+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - t. intricatum gbs
  - gsta cbc weight
  - pm2.5
---
Today:

  * Need to save new GBS datasets to BigDisc (my data backup drive) but it isn't mounting properly in Ubuntu 14.04.
  * Find examples of people using high-throughput sequencing methods of looking at methylation patterns (bi-sulfite treatments or other methods) while also getting SNP data at the same time. Others have likely done this… what methods did they use?
  * Check the md5 checksums of Trichomanes and Salvinia GBS datasets, put a backup copy on cordate(? or whichever machine I put the last Trichomanes datasets on) and let Zach Gompert know we have it backed up so he can delete it from his DoRC storage.
  * One of the goals of looking at the turkey data is to see if we could use just one Variety of each Type as a representative of the Type to reduce future work. Looking at the plots of significant interactions for Variety\*AFB Treatment it doesn't seem like that will be possible (in most cases, both domestic birds have similar responses to AFB treatment, but in at least a few cases, the two wild types appear to have different responses. I need to do 2way anovas of just Wild Varieties\*AFB treatment and just Domestic Varieties*AFB Treatment to see how often the two varieties in each type are having significantly different responses.
  * Need to find a way to analyze whether there are significant differences in weight gain over time between the AFB Treatments. Can you do 2-way anova of time-series data?

Done:

  * Put together summary of what I've done with the Turkey CBC/LiverProfile data for lab meeting.
  * Made a README.txt for the Turkey CBC/LiverProfile 2-way anova analyses and put a copy of my files on the toxicology drive (DATA/Turkey Data June 2014/TwoWayAnovas/)
  * Lab meeting
      * Showed the 2-way anova analysis.
      * Offered to help Jake with his Affymetrix data.
  * Got my notes from Statistical Bioinformatics (the course on analyzing Affymetrix gene expression data) so I can help Jake Weston analyze his PM2.5 data.
