---
title: Monday
date: 2014-11-24T14:49:06+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - t. intricatum gbs


---
  * GBS sequencing is done and the data is ready. Download my Crepidomanes (gomp002) & and Don Hauber's Salvinia (gomp001) GBS data from University of Utah sequencing center.
      * One copy to GBS_11-24-2014/ on transcriptome
      * One copy to Data/GBS_11-24-2014 on crozier (outside the backup path).
      * Put a README file in both locations describing the files and referring to the protocol used to generate the libraries.
      * Need to save them to BigDisc (my data backup drive) but it isn't mounting properly in Ubuntu 14.04... need to fight that later.
      * Zach Gompert is also downloading them to the DoRC so there will be ample backups around.
  * Signed dissertation coverpage from Todd Campbell arrived via USPS Priority at the Biology Dept today. I misunderstood the problem on the cover page- it wasn't the spacing after the department name, the department name should be on its own line. The new version I mailed to Todd has the same problem but Kami McNeil said it was acceptable to cut and tape sections of the signature page so we taped the fully signed section onto an updated version with the correct layout of the department name. Apparently, despite all the fuss over the need for all signatures to be original and in ink, it is acceptable to tape signatures in and in the end, the "officially signed" version doesn't even have to be the copy stored in the library - Any of the copies can go to the library and I can do whatever I want with the ink-signed version.
  * Did a final review of dissertation formatting, reprinted the coverpage and Chapter 5 (I fixed some inconsistencies in the punctuation I used in some of the heading levels and found another spot where I put a period outside quotation marks instead of inside), and delivered to the Assistant Dean at the School of Graduate Studies. They did not want the documents showing the formatting requirements - only the gray sheet showing the errors he found the first time, the signed department format approval form, and the reprinted dissertation. I also dropped off the Plans for Future publication form. All of it was stamped as recieved and recorded in a log.
  * Dropped off dissertation IRB form at the IRB office (on way home)
