---
title: Thursday
date: 2014-12-18T14:57:54+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - pm2.5
  - t. intricatum gbs
---
  * <span style="line-height: 13px;">Looked at ways to generate 4-way venn or euler diagrams for Jake Weston's lung affymetrix data. If you want something weighted, there are not many options - even getting a weighted 3-way euler diagram is difficult. The Vennerable package in R will do a 4-way ChowRuskey plot that isn't nearly as nice as an ellipsis euler plot, but depending on how the numbers turn out it may present the data clearly - especially if there are many 0 values. The other option is an unweighted venn, but it won't be as easy to see the sizes of the categories and will be especially confusing if there are many 0 values, since they still have space assigned on the diagram. Other R-packages I tried include VennDiagram, and venneuler. I also tried several java-based tools at http://www.eulerdiagrams.com/ but they either don't work for 4-category diagrams or they produce lower quality versions of the same plots I can get in R with Vennerable.</span>
  * Emailed Zach Gompert to ask if the results I am getting from cutadapt are comparable to what he has seen. On my Crepidomanes GBS dataset, cutadapt found Illumina adapter sequence in 37% of my reads and trimmed 12% of my total bases. On Don's Salvinia GBS dataset the adapter was in ~25% of the reads and trimmed ~8% of the total bases. This would suggest we have many reads that are shorter than what we expected based on the range we filtered at the BluePippin. He says that is not expected and will let me know what he finds in the data from the libraries he prepared at the same time.
