---
title: Friday
date: 2014-12-19T13:53:04+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - pm2.5
  - gsta cbc weight

---
  * Generated 2 types of venn/euler diagrams for Jake Weston's Lung Affymetrix data showing which genes are uniquely up-regulated in each treatment group or combination of groups. Even though the plain venn version isn't scaled based on the data, this particular dataset happens to fit the default area sizes well enough that it almost looks like it was scaled (with a few exceptions). The ChowRuskey plot has such irregularly shaped areas for this dataset that I think it is difficult to interpret. Interestingly, the majority of the up-regulated genes are unique to just one of the treatments. I would have expected many genes to be up-regulated in all treatments or at least for the two Diesel or two PM2.5 treatments to share many genes, or for the two high-level, or two low-level treatments to share many genes. Apparently the cells are responding in quite different ways to each of his four treatments.
  * How to statistically compare two time series? This is not something that has a straightforward solution. If I think that the data are reasonably linear, I can do a comparison of the slopes. If I can fit them to a curve I can compare two curves, but only two at a time. As much as I hate to discard all the intermediate measurements, I think the best way to analyze the turkey weight data may be to just convert it to a single measurement (weight gained, or weight gained as a percentage of starting weight) and do a 2-way anova like all the CBC measurements.
  * Added a favicon to this elab site so it is easier to spot in Chrome's open tabs and on the shortcut bar. Adding a favicon.ico file to the root directory of the site had no effect (I haven't had any luck with .ico files generated using online tools) but I imported the .ico file using the theme options in the admin panel and it worked. That only works to put the favicon on the site pages though - not on the admin pages. To put it on the site pages I added the following code at the very bottom of wordpress/wp-content/themes/suffusion/functions.php:
    ~~~
    // First, create a function that includes the path to your favicon
    function add_favicon() {
        echo '<link href="http://elab.aduffy70.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/favicon.png" rel="shortcut icon" />';
    }

    // Now, just make sure that function runs when you're on the login page and admin pages
    add_action('login_head', 'add_favicon');
    add_action('admin_head', 'add_favicon');
    ~~~

  * This will likely have to be redone after any site or theme updates (thus the code saved here...)
  * Added a favicon to my aduffy70.org site too (manually, using a png file since I can't seem to make a valid .ico file). Also fixed some minor typos on the site pages.
