---
title: Wednesday
date: 2014-01-29T11:05:39+00:00
layout: post
categories:

---
  * <span style="line-height: 13px;">The HapMap GBS data I submitted to Dryad for the Aspen PLoS manuscript was approved and will be released as soon as the paper is released. (Technically we shouldn't have submitted it til the paper was actually accepted, but reviewers wanted the references to the data to be in the paper before we could get it approved so I did it anyway after discussing with Paul Wolf).</span>
  * Made Bold's Mineral Nutrient Medium in preparation for germinating S48 Pteridium aquilinum spores for Paul.
      * We had all macronutrients in the lab except K2HPO4 and NaNO3, both of which I was able to get from Kendal Morris.
      * Mixed only 100mL of each macronutrient stock and only 500mL of the micronutrient stock (since we will never use them all anyway)
      * Made 1L of the Macronutrient + Micronutrient stock
  * Solidified 100mL of final medum with 0.7% agar (700mg bactoagar in 100mL medium and poured into 5 petri dishes.
  * Sowed S48 (from Sheffield) spores onto 2 plates.  Used the glassine envelope "pepper shaker" method to keep them from clumping together.  Paul recommended sowing fairly heavily since those spores are old.  Placed them in my growth chamber on the top shelf directly under the autocycling lights.
  * Video meeting with Paul Wolf
      * Find out pricing and timeline for Illumina runs
      * Make the library - talk to Hardeep Rai
      * Apply for Harvard Postdoc
      * Start giving weekend update emails
      * Figure out when the last possible defense date to finish Spring semester is
      * Keep ears open for anyone needing a rental in May/June since Paul and Carol's place will be available.
