---
title: Thursday
date: 2014-11-20T14:56:01+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - science ed drk12
---
  * Got Paul Wolf and Karen Mock signatures on new dissertation coversheets.
  * Found out from Kami McNeil that Paul's "on behalf of Todd Campbell" signature will NOT be accepted by the grad school. Sent 2 copies of the cover page (Fedex overnight on Paul's account) to Todd's home in Dartmouth (after confirming his address and that he will be there tomorrow). He will sign and return ASAP. This is the last thing I need before I can resubmit my dissertation to the graduate school.
  * Talked to Karen Mock about the data analysis she is working on and would like assistance with: She and Mike Pfrender got a GBS dataset for mountain pine beetles from their habitat forming a horshoe around the Great Basin. Past studies (AFLPs) show that at the southern tips of the horseshoe the beetles are very different and form sterile F1 hybrids. There are also some interesting things going on in the Y sex chromosome with very different sets of genes being moved out of the chromosome between the two groups. They know enough about the genome that we can probably identify Y-chromosome reads from the GBS dataset (though anything found there is for a project spoken for by one of Karen's ex-students. She is looking for help evaluating the data quality and figuring out how to analyze it.
  * Lunch with Paul Wolf & Max Longhurst. DRK12 project just finished the last PD session. The last round of testing happens in the spring and then the only thing left is data analysis. I still need to fix the plots on VPCsim... the teachers MUCH prefer having automated plots.
