---
title: Tuesday
date: 2014-12-15T23:59:56+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - t. intricatum gbs
  - pm2.5
---
  * Crepidomanes data:
    * What happened with the second cutadapt run? It looks like I could have filtered for a longer range of readlengths on the BluePippen when I generated the library. 37% of my reads had at least part of the adapter at the end, and a whopping 12% of my bases got trimmed! (25% and 7% for Don's data)
    * Quality filter data and start stacking reads
  * What support does Don Hauber need to continue analyzing his Salvinia data? He will be trying to run the same analyses I am at least at the start, so finish correcting, trimming, and cutting adapters from his reads. He wants to use all the exact matches and distance=1 reads.
  * Bigdisc won't mount to read/write?
    * I originally formatted it as hfs+ so that I could use it on both Mac and Linux. I knew hfs+ support was bad on Ubuntu but that was the only format that can be read by both operating systems AND can handle extremely large file sizes. Unfortunately, that hfs+ formatting quickly failed and from what I read online, that is going to be an ongoing problem, so I am forgetting about Mac and just formatting it as ext4. I'll always have some linux machine I can plug it into and scp to any other machine as needed. </span>
    * Even after reformatting as ext4, nautilus wouldn't acknowledge that the drive is r/w, even though I could write to it from a terminal, but I fixed that by deleting ~/.config/nautilus/ and rebooting. Seems to work correctly now, and I copied everything in my ~/Data folder to it. Also copied my first Trichomanes GBS dataset to it (and to ~/Data).
  * Helped Jake Weston with his Affymetrix data. He has a list of upregulated genes and we used GoStat to find GO terms that are significantly overrepresented for that set of genes. Now I just need to find a tool to take the list of GO designators and return the descriptions.
