---
title: ScienceSim senate meeting
date: 2011-11-01T09:49:04+00:00
layout: post
categories:

---
Attending: Shenlei Winkler, Mic Bowman, Jonathan Freedman, Doug Osborn, Aaron Duffy

  * Finished reviewing draft Community Charter and made list of policies referred to in the Community Charter that still need to be finalized
      * DMCA policy
      * Policy on copyright ownership (creators maintain ownership)
  * Discussion of underage populations - organization bringing them in needs to take responsibility for their security and we can provide 'best practices' and informal recommendations.  In the most likely case, the minors are part of an organization and are Users but not Community Members, so the organization bringing them in can manage their access.  But, what if an underage student wants to attach a region or otherwise take an active role in the community?  We can't have legal agreements with a minor, so we need to think further about how to address this possible situation.
  * OMF community magager - what is that entailed:
      * No one at OMF has time to take a large role and there is no funding so we are seeking a volunteer.
      * In the short term they will be responsible for structuring the website, and getting the various documents pushed through
      * Long term, they will be handle DCMA's, coordinating community registrations, assigning map locations etc.
      * it isn't clear now just how big of a job it could become so we need to better define what tasks and responsibilities are involved so potential volunteers know what they are volunteering for.
  * Discussed how to encourage people involved in the Homestead program more involved in the community.
  * Aaron will organize a 'seminar series' where we can learn more about the projects underway on the grid and provide a forum for groups to interact, share their work, and launch collaborations.
