---
title: Lunch meeting w/Paul Wolf
date: 2011-10-18T14:16:28+00:00
layout: post
categories:
---
  * Discussed status of VPGsim activity
  * Talked about priorities and projects.
      * Get back on H. wrightii manuscript.
      * Upcoming iSIT module 2 training
      * Upcoming iSIT module3 pilot
      * Can I get a second sample (extraction from a live T.intricatum) on Hardeep Rai's upcoming GBS run?
      * Consider a fourth day for the VPGsim activity to have students share results
      * Contact Josh Der to find status of PECS project.Â  I thought we were waiting on Josh but maybe he is waiting on us for something
      * Apply for graduate school research funding (due early November) for GBS money.
