---
title: Tuesday
date: 2011-08-23T23:59:16+00:00
layout: post
categories:
---
  * eTOC reading:

<a href="http://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05212.x">doi:10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05212.x</a>Estimating clonal plant age with AFLPs. Focused on a common plant (not normally considered for protection or study) because it is a 'foundation' plant with large effects on its ecosystem.

<a href="http://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02569.x">doi:10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02569.x</a>Modelling airborn dispersal of microorganisms at a global scale.  They simulated dispersal from 2 locations in a single year (ruling out unusual or rare events) with several sizes of organism (up to 60um) and found that intercontinental dispersal is very unlikely for larger sizes in any single year.  Fern spores are even larger (120um for C-ferns) so does that suggest that it is even less likely?  Can their results be extended to thinking about fern dispersal?  They suggest cross-equitorial movement via wind is nearly impossible with their model, suggesting they aren't including Hadley cells like in Tom Ranker's work.  Also they are talking about dispersal from a single point.  So does that just mean that long-distance dispersal from any ONE plant in any one year would be very unlikely, but the presence of many many plants would increase the likelihood that spores from at least some plants would be expected to disperse long distances in any given year? Also, how does particle density differ between microorganisms and fern spores.  If fern spores are much less dense, then at larger sizes they might be expected to stay airborne longer.

<a href="http://doi.org/10.1007/s11165-011-9236-3">doi:10.1007/s11165-011-9236-3</a>Slowmation paper via Todd Campbell
