---
title: ScienceSim senate meeting
date: 2011-10-25T12:13:22+00:00
layout: post
categories:

---
Attending: Shenlei Winkler, Mic Bowman, Doug Osborn, Robert Adams

  * Discussed issues homestead groups have reported (greyed out textures, corrupt meshes, firewall ports for the viewer)
  * Any animations uploaded before the last month are corrupt and need to be reloaded.
  * Shenlei updated us on what is happening with OMF
      * Shen is taking on the role of interim community manager
      * She has a document of things to put on the website to help new users - she will circulate as a google doc
          * Shenlei would like to have the ScienceSim distribution ready to go. Â I need to get on it.
          * Oar files
          * region modules (and instructions)
      * Reviewed the draft charter document (sections 1-7; need to continue with 8 - end)
      * User meeting to be held weekly Tues 10am Pacific
      * I will post my notes as mtg minutes on the wiki (DONE)
