---
title: Reading
date: 2011-06-02T15:52:13+00:00
layout: post
categories:
---
**Reading:**

  * <a href="http://doi.org/10.1111/j.1420-9101.2010.02188.x">doi:10.1111/j.1420-9101.2010.02188.x</a> Empirical evidence that haploids adapt faster than diploids. Theoretically, this is the expected result because the effect of a beneficial positive mutation in a diploid is reduced based on its level of dominance.  They used asexually reproducing isogenetic haploid and diploid yeast.
  * <a href="http://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2010.12.009">doi:10.1016/j.gene.2010.12.009</a> Existing tRNAs in a genome sometimes get converted into another tRNA.  At first this seemed simple - just change a nucleotide in the anticodon - but they are talking about changes to a completely different tRNA so both the anticodon and the part that interacts with the amino acid would have to be changed.
  * <a href="http://doi.org/10.1093/jxb/erq385">doi:10.1093/jxb/erq385</a> Would be interesting to see which of the maternal gametophyte genes in Table 1 can be identified in Josh's Pteridium gametophyte transcriptome.
  * <a href="http://doi.org/10.1093/jhered/esq021">doi:10.1093/jhered/esq021</a> expanatory pluralism = "the existence of a multitude of theories or explanations for a speciﬁc phenomenon".  Tangled bank hypothesis = the variability of sexual offspring provides an advantage over less variable asexual offspring because they can fill slightly different niches and compete with each other less. Mutational deterministic hypothesis = sexual reproduction purges deleterious mutations so efficiently it makes up for the costs of sex. Models seek to maximize generality, precision, and realism but typically only achieve 2 of the 3.  A basic assumption of modern science: The world consists of mathematically describable mechanisms but we can only observe the patterns these mechanisms generate in nature.
