---
title: Thursday
date: 2015-01-08T14:33:14+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta mirna
---
  * Karen Mock's Pine Beetle GBS runs on the workstation filled the harddrive. To clear space I removed all the intermediate files from my Crepidomanes analysis. We generate a lot of files but only really need to save the raw data and the last processed file, so I was able to remove 242 Gb of excess files. Also removed everything but the raw data and last processed file from the first Trichomanes GBS folders. Haven't done anything with Don's files but the same could work there. This freed 375Gb total so Karen should be able to complete her 5 runs if we keep deleting the unnecessary files after each new step.
    * Raw data 72Gb (keep)
    * correctedreads, ambiguousreads, distantreads 72Gb total
    * trimbarcodes 60Gb
    * cutadapt 55Gb
    * removeemptysequences 55Gb
    * fastq\_quality\_trimmer 54Gb (keep)
  * Briefly helped Jake Weston run the scripts to compare upregulated-gene lists for his Lung Affymetrix data
  * Looking into bioinformatic ways of identifying potential miRNAs affecting GSTs.
    * TargetScan.org let's you pick a human, mouse, chicken gene and see what known human, mouse, worm, etc miRNAs have binding sites and how those sites are conserved acrossed taxa. Potentially useful, but didn't have many hits to GSTA3.
    * There are miRNAs annotated in the turkey genome (487?). We could search each of those for partial homology to the GSTA UTRs from turkey. Perhaps do the same thing for chicken since there is more data on miRNAs in chicken and then look for homology to turkey?
