---
title: Friday
date: 2015-05-08T14:18:55+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta mirna
  - t. intricatum gbs
---
  * Finished SNP table for Inter-GSTA regions
      * Deepika Gaddam provided additional info on which turkey variety each sample represents:
          * BR (Bourbon Red), RP (Royal Palm), and SB (Standard Bronze) are heritage varieties
          * M (Moroni) is definitely Nicholas. She thinks G is as well. It is definitely a domestic variety and she doesn't think we sequenced any BB white so it must be Nicholas. The alleles present in G and M suggest they are probably the same thing as well.
          * She thinks the E sequences are actually EW (Eastern White). The alleles don't seem to rule that out (though they aren't as similar as the G and N were to each other).
      * We don't have great coverage of the 3'UTRs (where we'd most expect to find miRNA targets) because the primers were designed with a focus on the 5'UTR. Also we don't have the entire 5'UTR for all regions/varieties so additional primers are needed. Including BB white would be valuable since we are focusing our future efforts on BB white rather than Nicholas. We could get the additional sequence we need in a couple Sanger runs - we don't need nearly as many replicates and I don't think we need to focus on the heritage varieties.
  * Meeting with Paul Wolf and Zach Gompert to discuss Crepidomanes analysis
      * Try Euclidean distance based on 3 genotype frequencies rather than 2 allele frequencies
      * Structure
          * make sure I'm using admixture mode with correlated frequencies
          * report credibility intervals in addition to the point estimates.
          * Make sure to repeat runs to be sure results are similar since it may not be reaching equilibrium.
          * Look at plots for lower K-values to see if they make more sense geographically
      * What is my level of heterozygozity? If it is low consider dropping heterozygotes and using a haploid model
      * Try PCA - it has no HWE related assumptions
      * What is the minor allele frequency distribution? Do I get similar results if I filter things with MAF < 5% or 10%? Consider separate runs using all the data, just the low MAF values (likely rare alleles) and just the high MAF values (common alleles). Rare alleles are more likely to show recent patterns and may overwhelm the analysis since there are so many of them.
      * Zach has GATK running on the cluster and can help with getting things running.
      * For the talk, keep the focus on the organism. Only VERY briefly even acknowledge the caveats of this analysis since the audience won't be interested or have the background to know how it matters.
