---
title: Tuesday
date: 2015-04-07T15:00:13+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta expression
  - gsta mirna
  - t. intricatum gbs
---
  * miRNA
      * Determine whether DNA sequences need to be reverse complemented - they don't. Some of them are reverse complements of each other but they are different entries for the same miRNA family so it appears this is intentional (i.e., either miRNAs are produced from both strands or we don't know which strand produces miRNAs.
      * Filter mature miRNAs for duplicates - filtered for exact matches and matches where the shorter sequence is entirely contained within a longer sequence (131 duplicates).
      * Identify seed sequences
      * Search for seed targets in GSTA4 UTR and coding sequence
  * Ran scripts (after modifying them) to reformat the new Fluidigm data for Deepika Gaddam:
      * There are more genes, and for some there are 8 instead of 4 replicates. Deepika wants to keep the replicates separate this time so we can look at variation between replicates.
      * I generated the gene tables both ways - pooled and unpooled so she can see what the variation is, but we can't do the ANOVA using unpooled data. Each of those replicate pcr reactions is measuring the gene expression from the same bird, so they aren't independent. The birds are the experimental units so the multiple measurements have to be averaged. Otherwise the ANOVA would treat it as if we had 8 times as many birds as we really did (or 4 depending on the gene) and we are more likely to find significance that isn't really there. We still get an advantage from the fact that we have more replicates- we can be more confident that the pooled averaged value reflects the actual gene expression of that bird.
      * I think we have a problem with the overall experimental design of this experiment. If I understand correctly, there were separate pens of bird for each variety and treatment, so all the birds of one variety and treatment were in the same pen together. That means our experimental unit was the pen - not the bird, they aren't independent - so the measurements of all birds in the pen should be averaged, leaving us with just one value for each variety*treatment. We can't separate pen effects from treatment effects.
  * Crepidomanes GBS
      * rerun Structure using only the 277 loci with 80% coverage
      * Look into analysis methods for haploid organisms (bacteria, moss)
      * schedule meeting w/Zach Gompert to discuss issues of ploidy
