---
title: Tuesday
date: 2015-02-17T14:56:45+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - t. intricatum gbs
  - pm2.5
  - gsta mirna
---
  * Gave Paul Wolf an update on Crepidomanes GBS. There are no clear peaks at 50, 66, or 75% in individually clustered samples from C. intricatum, D. petersii, or T. boschianum so either they are all true haploids or my method of detecting ploidy isn't effective. Don Hauber's Salvinia dataset is from sporophytes so they should be diploid (at least) so I can use a couple of his samples as a control for the method. Also, realized that since one of my most common reads is from trnS-rps4 I can look for that fragment in all of my samples to check that the cpgenome is from the expected species (or at least closely related species from Ebihara's filmy fern phylogenetic work - I don't see T. boschianum or D. petersii sequences in genbank, unless the names have changed).
  * Talking to Jake Weston about Lung Affymetrix data
      * He had the interesting idea to run comparisons of just the 3 controls and filter out all genes that are significantly differently expressed between them, then filter out those genes and only use the ones that are relatively similar as the control for the analysis with the Diesel and PM2.5 samples. It likely throws out a lot of useful info, but could give us something conservative to use as the control.
      * He ran analyses using all combinations of controls and Venn diagrammed the results. There is a small set of genes that are differentially expressed in ALL cases that we could use with some confidence that they are really up/down regulated... though the subset of those that have fold-changes over 1.5 is only around 25 genes.
      * He ran comparisons of what is differentially expressed between the controls and D12/P12 vs between D1/P1 and D12/P12 and those sets are only about 50% the same.
      * He is going to contact the Affymetrix rep to see if they have any advice for dealing with the huge variation between our control replicates or can offer any insight into what may have gone wrong to produce this result.
  * Reading about eukaryote mRNA and particularly the 3' UTR (likely site of miRNA interaction sites):
      * Identifying the 3'UTR:
          * typically has a PAS (AAUAAA) toward the 3' end
          * CPE (UUUUUUAU) is usually within 100 bp of the PAS
          * often contains AU rich elements 50-150 bp long with multiple copies of AUUUA.
      * Longer 3' UTRs correspond to lower expression rates
      * 5' (imperfect) binding of miRNAs to the seed sequence leads to transcriptional repression
      * Perfect binding leads to transcript degradation
      * 5' UTR contains a Kozak consensus sequence (AGGAGGU) 3-10 bp upstream from the initiation codon (usually UAG).
      * Since all these 5's and 3's are relative to the mRNA sequence does that mean they are reversed in the DNA sequence?
  * Look into the Argonaute CLIP method for identifying miRNA targets (recommended and used in <a href="http://doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msu323">doi:10.1093/molbev/msu323</a>
  * Continuing clustering Crepidomanes GBS at different stringencies. 0.87, 0.86, and 0.85 finished on the DoRC cluster but 0.84 and 0.83 ran out of wall time (96 hours). Restarted them, plus 0.82, with an 8 day (192 hour) wall time and 32 cpus instead of 24. If this doesn't finish I don't know what to do next. Though with the plot of cluster counts flattening out and no sign of a second dip at 0.85 this plot also seems to support the idea that I don't have polyploid taxa (or at least if I do, the subgenomes are very closely related).
