---
title: Wednesday
date: 2015-12-02T14:03:49+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta expression
---
  * Deepika Gaddam has preliminary results on the western blots she did to look at actual GSTA3 protein levels in Wild/Domesticated*Control/AFB turkey livers:
    * Patterns matches what we see at the mRNA level: Wild > Domesticate, AFB-treated > Control. The difference between Types is greater than the difference between treatments
    * Questions:
      * How do we control for differences in the amount of protein from each sample?
        * Answer: She has non-specific binding bands that are approximately the same brightness in all type-treatments. She can also look at B-Actin or other house-keeping genes to make sure they show similar brightness.
      * Can we quantify the differences between band brightness? Is the difference in brightness between EWA and EWC more or less than the difference between DomA and DomC?
        * Answer: We can't really tell from looking at the bands. We can say that one band is brighter than another but not really make comparisons between differences like that.
      * She included recombinant GSTA3 and GSTA4 controls so we know the antibody is specific to GSTA3. We don't know it isn't binding other GSTAs but the lack of GSTA4 binding gives some confidence. Do we need to include the other recombinant GSTAs to be sure?
    * She is going to strip the GSTA3 antibodies and try again to look at GSTA4.
    * What does this tell us?
      * Our GSTA3 antibody works
      * There is GSTA3 protein in all treatments with similar pattern of relative quantities as mRNA
      * Does it rule out differences in translational control between Wild and Domestic? We can't be sure without somehow quantifying the relative differences in the protein levels. If the pattern of protein expression is just like the pattern of mRNA expression, it would suggest differences in translational control aren't as big a factor as the differences in transcriptional control. How can we quantify this better?
      * There is more GSTA3 protein in Wild birds under normal conditions then in Domesticated birds when AFB exposed.
  * Weekly and monthly backups. Adjusted the instructions since we now use CAMEL instead of CATACOMBS. This process still takes much longer than it needs to and requires more disk space than necessary. I'm making monthly zip files where the vast majority of the content hasn't changed since the last zip file. What if instead of one big zip, I zip subfolders. The only parts that change regularly are Dropbox, Downloads, and Desktop. Backups never really changes, I just add to it and it is mostly zipped folders that won't condense much further anyway. So there is no advantage to zipping the rsync of that. If I haven't changed Dev, Documents, or Videos in the last month there is no reason to zip them.
