---
title: Wednesday
date: 2015-01-28T14:59:55+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - t. intricatum gbs
  - gsta methylation
---
  * Next steps Crepidomanes GBS
      * cd-hit-454 finished in under 24 hours - 32,880,920 clusters
      * it gives 2 output files:
          * a fasta file with the seed sequence from each cluster
          * a cluster file listing the clusters and which sequences are in each.
              * The names it uses for the sequences get cut off at the first space so it doesn't include the sample name or barcode. I need to change my read names to put the sample name and barcode first, then rerun.
              * Once that is redone, on this first 100% identity run I'll be able to parse the cluster file to see which clusters contain reads from which barcodes. If I use this non-redundant list of clusters as the input for subsequent clustering runs I won't be able to do that for those. Is that important enough to be worth the extra time it will take to do that clustering on the entire dataset each time?
                  * put the samplename/barcode up front where it will be reported in the cluster file and rerun the 100% identity clustering.
                  * Rename the reads in the seeds fasta file output with just the cluster number
                  * Use that file as input for clustering at other identities. That way the cluster file output from those will list which cluster numbers from the 100% run are in each cluster in other runs and I can write a script to do lookups of which sample names are in each cluster if I need that later, while still getting the significant speed advantage of doing the clustering with just the non-redundant sequences.
  * What is needed to wrap up the turkey CBC/weight data analysis?
  * Met with Paul Wolf, Carol Rowe, Zach Gompert, & Martin Schilling to discuss targetted amplicon sequencing.
      * Carol is moving ahead with a 2-primer pair method, where the first primers amplify the target amplicon and have a 5' end that matches the inner 13 bases of the illumina primers. Then the second set of primers has the entire illumina adapter and indexing sequences. This way you design one primer for the universal illumina adapter and one for each of the secondary adapter+index combinations (they are doing 96). Then you just need to design one primer set for each amplicon. Once they have the 96+1 Illumina primers they can be used for future projects by just designing a new pair of amplicon primers for each amplicon you want to do.
      * I need to figure out the actual costs involved in the targeted bisulfite sequencing I want to do. Does it make more sense to amplify big fragments, shear, and blunt-end ligate the illumina adapters or to amplify smaller fragments with sticky ends to apply the illumina adapters Carol is designing? It will be a tradeoff in pcr reagent costs vs library prep reagent costs.
      * When I start designing primers that will be used with high-fidelity polymerase, I need to be sure to have them phosphorylated at the ends to avoid possible degradation by the polymerase. Zach has seen mis-designed primers still work with hifi polymerase because the error correction activity "corrected" the mis-designed bases. Phosphorylation prevents this.
