---
title: Wednesday
date: 2015-01-07T14:51:43+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta mirna
  - t. intricatum gbs

---
  * Bisulfite primer design
  * microRNA reading
      * miRNAs are short (17-22bp) RNA fragments that guide RNA induced silencing complexes (RISCs) to a target mRNA strand. Bases at the 5' end (usually, but sometimes elsewhere, and not always exactly complementary) provide a match between miRNA and target.
      * ~487 miRNAs identified in turkey genome
      * If you have a known miRNA and you want to know it's targets you can biotinylate it so that after it binds to the target it can be bound to a substrate and pulled-down from the rest of the cell contents.
      * The kits Roger Coulombe sent a link to are to do that. But I think in our case we know the target and want to find the miRNA(s) that are acting on it - not the other way around.
      * Questions:
          * We can use antibodies to pull down GST mRNAs. If their expression is being blocked by miRNAs, when they are pulled down, the miRNAs should come with them, right?
          * Unless they are getting immediately cleaved, in which case the ones that get pulled down will be the ones that haven't yet bound to miRNA/RISC?
          * People have used miRNA seq to look at miRNA expression in cells. Could a comparison of miRNA expression in wild vs domestic turkey cells narrow down the  list of potential miRNAs that might be involved? That assumes that the difference is in expression levels of miRNA. Isn't it also possible that the miRNA levels are the same, but some change in the miRNA or target sequence just makes them more likely to bind?
  * Next steps on Crepidomanes GBS data
      * Used fastq\_quality\_trimmer to remove low quality (<20) bases from the 3' end of reads and discard anything <30bp after trimming: 
        ~~~
        fastq_quality_trimmer -t 20 -l 30 -v -i removeemptysequencesOUT-fixed.fastq -o fastq_quality_trimmerOUT.fastq
        ~~~
      * Now that I've gotten what are probably the worst bases of each read removed should I now get rid of any reads that don't have average quality above some higher threshold?
      * Rerun fastx\_quality\_stats to compare pre- and post- quality trimmed datasets
      * Wrote and ran getbarcodecounts.py to count the reads and bases assigned to each barcode. Ran it for pre-quality trimmed data. Need to run it post quality trimming for comparison
      * Convert fastq to fasta and try uclust
