---
title: Thursday
date: 2015-01-29T14:47:05+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta cbc weight
  - t. intricatum gbs
---
  * Lab meeting
      * What is needed to wrap up the turkey CBC/weight data analysis?
          * I have the analyses showing which of the treatment x variety or treatment x type interactions are significant for everything but the time series weight data
          * I looked into time-series comparisons and they don't look promising. I can convert the data to one or more % weight increase measurements and do the same 2way anova as the other measurements
          * Roger Coulombe mentioned he was interested to know if it looked like a single variety could be used to represent each type. Based on the comparisons I have already, I don't think this will be possible, but I can do the formal tests to show that.
          * What else?
      * Update on miRNA and methylation
      * Find out more about turkey SNP chip. What is actually on it and how would we try to use it?
      * Work with Jake Weston on heatmaps (R?)
  * Lunch with Scot Kelchner and Paul Wolf
  * Next steps Crepidomanes GBS
      * Finished rerunning the cintricatum_1.0 cluster with the renamed fasta reads (sample name and barcode at the start of the name). Same results as the first run, but with better sample names. (~32million clusters)
      * Renamed clusters with the cluster numbers and read counts so in subsequent assemblies I'll be able to see what clusters were joined and how many reads are involved
      * Started cintricatum_0.99 cluster using the renamed 1.0 clusters as the input. Even thought there are only 32million reads to cluster, it is taking longer because at 0.99, each read will be its own cluster - it is impossible to have a mismatch with a distance over 0.99 (86/87 < 0.99). Really this cluster run won't do anything, but I am running it anyway just to be sure things are working the way I think they should.
  * Get cost estimate for International Pteridology Conference (IPC) Washington DC trip by tomorrow. Tom Ranker and Paul Wolf may have travel funding available.
  * Nrf2-Keap1 reading: Under normal cell conditions, Nrf2 is present but inactivated by binding to Keap1. Under oxidative or electrophilic stress, it separates from Keap1, moves to the nucleus and interacts with transcriptional regulation proteins to upregulate antioxidative proteins. Nrf2 is also involved in reducing or preventing inflammation.
