---
title: Monday
date: 2015-03-09T14:56:19+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta other
---
  * Upgrade cordate to 12.04 (Update from 10.04 to 12.04 is automatic. Moving to 14.04 takes an additional update and since I haven't tested anything on 14.04 yet, best not to do it yet. This puts ALL my servers on 12.04 so I have 2 years before I have to worry about another upgrade.)
      * Updated the backup version on fernseed.usu.edu/VPCsim.html and verified that it is working (including plots and forms to update populations)
      * Followed [these instructions][1] to do the update over ssh (no screen session). Success!
  * Weirdness in the Meleagris genome info in NCBI:
      * The latest sequence for Meleagris chromosome 2 (NC_015012.2) shows ICK - GSTA3 - GSTA4 - GSTA1.1
      * The previous version(s?) (BAC37H15) show ICK - GSTA4 - GSTA3 - GSTA1.1. This is the version Hardeep used for primer design.
      * Blast still only returns hits to the old version, not the new.
      * Trying to align the old with the new gives a very gappy alignment. Does this mean the assembly has actually been rearranged in this area, rather than just the annotations changing?
      * How does this affect the sanger sequence Deepika Gaddam has generated? There are gaps (NNNNNs) in the old sequence that was used to design primers so perhaps any rearrangement in the assembly just rearranged the order of the sections between gaps?
  * I need local turkey blast databases
      * chromosome 2 (ncbi)
      * all chromosomes (ncbi)
      * mRNAs (ncbi)
      * cDNAs and chromosomes (ncbi)
      * All DNA and RNA (all possible sources)

[1]: https://www.virtualmin.com/documentation/system/os/ubuntu-lucid-to-precise
