---
title: Thursday
date: 2015-02-26T14:46:49+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta expression
  - pm2.5
  - gsta mirna
  - t. intricatum gbs
---
  * Lab meeting
    * The ANOVAs we ran on Deepika Gaddam's Fluidigm data show the patterns we expect plus one interesting new thing:
      * As expected, there are differences between the AFB and control gene expression for some of the GSTAs - particularly GSTA3 and GSTA4. There is increased expression in AFB treated birds. Both wild and domestic birds respond this way, suggesting that the susceptibility differences we see are NOT due to differences in transcription and mRNA levels - it is translational (posttranscriptional) regulation.
      * NRF2 levels DO respond to AFB treatment differently between wild and domestic birds. Wild birds have increased NRF2 mRNA levels in with AFB treatment, but the levels do not change with treatment in domestic birds.
    * For Jake Weston's Lung Affymetrix data, we are getting a replacement chip for C1 from Affymetrix and we have one chip left so we could rerun 2 controls. Ideally they will cluster together and be similar to one of our previous controls.
      * __Update:__ Jake checked the lot numbers of the chips used for the run. The chips that all cluster closest together were run on one lot (including C2 which clusters closest to the others of the controls). P1 and C3 were second lot, and P1 is the non-control that is furthest from the other non-controls. I suspected it enough that I tried eliminating it in some of the QC comparisons I did. C1 is a third lot, which is the same as the the other 2 he ran on the first small run that both failed.  So our chips cluster better by lot number than they do by treatment!
    * Gave update on miRNA data exploration - still pulling together all the turkey miRNAs from multiple sources.
    * Does Nrf2/Keap1 act to reduce transcription or translation? Need a better understanding of this process.
  * miRNA data exploration
    * Read the [ miRNA PCR panel assay info Roger Coulombe forwarded ]( http://www.exiqon.com/pick-and-mix?utm_source=PCRInfomail&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=2015-02 )
      * LNA (Locked Nucleic Acid) PCR [ doi:10.1261/rna.2148705 ]( http://doi.org/10.1261/rna.2148705 ) uses specially modified nucleotides in the primer so you can use shorter than normal primers and still get good amplification.
      * Two-step process where a first (miRNA specific) primer is used to reverse transcribe the miRNA into cDNA and add a priming site for a second primer (which also increases the length into a range suitable for PCR) that is used for Sybergreen RT qPCR..
      * The method can focus on the precursor-miRNA or the mature-miRNA (we are probably only interested in the mature) with enough specificity (2000-fold less detection of the precursor when targeting the mature) that one does not drastically affect measurements of the other.
      * Helpful [ general guidelines for designing and performing mRNA expression experiments with qPCR methods ]( http://www.exiqon.com/ls/Documents/Scientific/miRNA-qPCR-guidelines.pdf ) (ex. Fluidigm)
  * Crepidomanes GBS
    * What if I weight the histogram by number of reads? 5000/10000 reads is more meaningful than 5/10, right?
