---
title: Thursday
date: 2015-02-19T14:57:03+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta expression
  - pm2.5
---
  * Ran 2-way anovas on Deepika Gaddam's turkey Fluidigm data (ct-values for GSTA's and Nrf normalized against 3 different house keeping genes. Only found significant interactions between AFB treatment and type or variety for a couple of them when normalized against B-Actin. All interactions were non-significant when data was normalized against GADPH or RPL11. Generated full ANOVA output, a summary table of significance values and interaction plots, box-whisker plots, and QQ plots.
      * Interesting R quirk... The line endings on the R ANOVA output are Unix linefeeds so the files don't open correctly on Windows. I converted them to Windows endings (using TextWrangler - but I now know how to do it in Sublime2 - in the view menu) so she can view the files. I think if I do this before running the summary script it will fail.
  * Worked with Deepika to run the Fluidigm data reformatting script in a couple different ways so she could make more direct comparisons between her dataset and the one Carol Rowe generated.
  * Worked with Jake Weston on the Affymetrix Lung data. It looks like limiting the genes to just those that have fairly similar values in the three control replicates reduces the number of significantly differently regulated genes that only show up when a single control is used but doesn't affect the list of genes that show up when different combinations of controls are used... giving us some confidence that that list of genes really is upregulated. We are likely throwing out a lot of up and downregulated genes, but the ones we are keeping should be real and not just noise.  I hope.
  * Josh Der and Emily Sessa are looking for related gametophytes and sporophytes of a filmy fern for transcriptome analysis and asked for recommendations. I suggested the Hawaiian Vandenboschia davallioides (since I grew mats of gametophytes from a couple sporophytes and eventually got new juvenile sporophytes,), or Trichomanes boschianum (with the caveat that they'd need to verify the gametophytes weren't actually T. intricatum), or contacting Joel Nitta to see what he might have access to.
