---
title: Updated GSTA region variant (SNP) table from Kent Reed
date: 2015-12-15T15:04:45+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - gsta alt splicing
  - gsta mirna
---
  * Kent Reed sent updated variant tables for the GSTA3/GSTA4 promoters
      * In this case, "promoters" just means everything between ICK and GSTA4 and everything between GSTA4 and GSTA3.
      * How can I use this information?
          * How does the table differ from the preliminary version I used to identify miRNAs with interactions at variant sites?
              * There are NO changes to the section between GSTA4 and GSTA3, but I have new info for upstream of GSTA4. Currently my analysis finds miRNAs with interaction at sites in GSTA4 UTR3 and GSTA3 UTR5. I can expand that to look at GSTA4 UTR5 but Kent's data doesn't give us any info about GSTA3 UTR3. I have another table (Inter-GSTA\_SNP\_table.ods) that shows some SNPs within all the GSTA UTRs. I think this is from Deepika/Carol's sequencing data. Don't we also have a table of SNPs between coding sequences somewhere? I can incorporate all of those to get a more complete analysis.
              * Can I use the table to generate an actual sequence for wild so I can run Starmir on that sequence to identify interaction sites that exist in wild but not domestic? The current process only identifies sites that exist in domestic that might not exist in wild (they contain a SNP).
          * How do the variants affect the LTRs/LINEs predicted in Ensembl?
          * How do the variants affect splice sites in the different putative versions of the GSTA3 UTR5? What about GSTA4. I haven't looked at splice variants there, but this data would cover GSTA4 UTR5 and UTR3. It doesn't cover GSTA3 UTR3 though.
          * This can be used to inform primer design for methylation sequencing.
          * Where do these variants fall relative to CpG islands?
      * I made a spreadsheet (GSTA\_region\_variants\_All\_Sources.ods) that combines the 2 new GSTA3/GSTA4 variant tables with the table I made in May 2015 from Deepika Gaddam's Inter-GSTA sequencing (Inter-GSTA\_SNP\_table.ods). This gives us one master list of all known intergenic SNPs.
      * Gaps in the data:
          * cds SNPs. We know what they are but where is the data? It matters since miRNAs can interact with cds sequence too.
          * GSTA4 SNP data covers the 5'UTR and 3'UTR. GSTA3 SNP data covers 5'UTR, but depending on whether it really ends at the first or second set of polyA signal sequences, I may not have all of the 3'UTR.
          * Minor gaps in some of the varieties in each dataset, but with combined datasets we don't have any gaps in GSTA4/GSTA3 UTRs (other than the possible one described above)
