---
title: Tuesday
date: 2013-01-15T16:27:51+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - h. wrightii
  - science ed drk12
---
  * Got the data for UBC herbarium collections of Hymenophyllum wrightii, figured out which were actually sporophytes (by crossreferencing with the published collections and Mary Stensvold's photos from 2008.
  * Mary found out from Judith Harpel at UBC herbarium that the Schofield collection from Spirit Park in Vancouver is misidentified - it is a liverwort.  That makes more sense based on what we know about H. wrightii - Vancouver seemed like it would be too dry in the rainshadow of Vancouver Island.  That leaves one seeming oddball- the Hall Point, Sonora Island collection (UBC V157322).  It is also east of Vancouver Island where we wouldn't expect H. wrightii.  Mary asked Judy to take a look at that sample too.  I need to add Judy Harpel to the acknowledgments section of the paper.
  * Max Longhurst called to ask if I would be willing to take a 'brain-dump' from Dave (Monoa?) who has been working on the data collection backend for S'cape.  They don't want me to do anything with it yet, but at some point in the future we may want to find a way to utilize that data and we need someone on the project who understands how it is set up.  It will just be 3-4 hours and no additional work in the short-term, and he already passed it by Paul Wolf, so I agreed.  Brett Shelton will be scheduling a meeting with me, Dave, an Jeff Olsen.
  * Impromptu meeting over coffee with Paul Wolf, Martin Schilling, and Hardeep Rai to discuss BGS vs RAD-seq.  The two processes are so similar I'm still not sure I understand the difference.  We are meeting again next tuesday.  I suggested everyone take another look at the Davey et al paper I read last week since the biases it discusses may be relevant to the data filtering we are doing. Emailed the group another copy (Karen Mock originally distributed it to all of us).
