---
title: Friday
date: 2012-10-26T23:59:50+00:00
layout: post
categories:
  - science ed drk12
  - science ed vpcsim
---
  * iSIT module 4 pilot at Gayle Dowdle's class at Fort Herriman Middle School.
      * This was day 2.  I wasn't there for day 1, which was kids playing levels one and two of S'cape.
      * We had shortened periods and computer problems.  Because the students weren't able to use their normal lab machines it took a long time for the computers to boot and they had to install Unity.  S'cape itself takes quite a while to load on their slower machines too.
      * The plan was to play through levels 3 and 4 but very few students made it through level 3 and we did not have a meaningful discussion to tie the game back to the science.
      * I am concerned with how we are using the tech in this module.  They play the game and then we do 2 rounds of inquiry with hands on experiments.  It doesn't seem that the tech is tightly tied to the inquiry and it also doesn't clearly introduce the science content.  Gayle is rewriting the S'cape questions and answers so hopefully the game will at least cover the content side of things more clearly.  The feeling among the teacher leader group (which I share) is that the game is not really ready or complete and that it doesn't yet do all the things we hoped it would in terms of introducing content to the students.
  * Todd Campbell and Max Longhurst asked me about the possibility of changing module 1 to use VPCsim (or something like it) instead of a field activity.  They want to know if we could modify VPCsim do the same sort of high/low human impact comparison we do in the field.  VPCsim already has a human impact setting built in so it is possible, but I don't think that part of the simulation is rich enough to produce anything but obviously fixed result.  Changing the human impact affects all plants equally and all it does is increase their death rates.  I think if we were to do this the relationships in the simulation would need to be a bit more complex. 
